doc: matter: Bluetooth LE advertising arbiter info (#10993)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: doc/nrf/protocols/matter/getting_started/adding_bt_services.rst

For more information about what the class offers, see the `Bluetooth LE Arbiter's header file`_.

.. _ug_matter_device_adding_bt_services_adding:

Adding support for a Bluetooth LE service
*****************************************

To add support for a Bluetooth LE service implemented in the |NCS|, complete the following steps:

1. Check the documentation of the :ref:`Bluetooth service <lib_bluetooth_services>` for its characteristics and functions.
#. Add the application code that instantiates and fills the `Bluetooth LE Arbiter's Request struct`_, including its ``priority`` field.
#. Add the application code that calls the `Bluetooth LE Arbiter's InsertRequest function`_, with the reference to the ``Request`` structure, when the service needs to be advertised.
   This adds the service to the Arbiter queue.

.. _ug_matter_device_adding_bt_services_example:

Example: Bluetooth LE with Nordic UART Service implementation
=============================================================

The :ref:`Matter door lock sample` provides an optional configuration of :ref:`matter_lock_sample_ble_nus`, which you can use as an example implementation of a Bluetooth LE service.

> Once enabled, you can use this configuration to declare NUS commands specific to a Matter sample and use them to control the device remotely through Bluetooth LE.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once enabled, you can use this configuration to declare NUS commands specific to a Door Lock sample and use them to control the device remotely through Bluetooth LE.
```
We would like to separate the Matter stack from the BLE.

> The following steps mirror the implementation steps with the NUS as example:

Reviewer: Are the following lines steps? I guess the steps should start with `Do something...`.

.. _ug_matter_device_adding_bt_services:

Adding Bluetooth LE services to Matter application
##################################################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

> You can integrate a variety of Bluetooth® LE services to your Matter-enabled application.

Author: First occurrence on a page takes the (r)

If the service that requests advertising has a higher priority than the service that is running when the request is submitted, the advertising is restarted using parameters defined in the new request.

In the Matter implementation in the |NCS|, the following services are configured by default for all Matter applications:

* Commissioning for Matter (priority ``0``)
* DFU over Bluetooth LE (priority ``uint8 max``)

Lower number has a higher priority.
If you implement a custom Bluetooth LE service, you need to prioritize it with the Bluetooth LE Arbiter.

The class was created for the Zephyr platform in the Matter SDK.
For more information about what the class offers, see the `Bluetooth LE Arbiter's header file`_.

.. _ug_matter_device_adding_bt_services_adding:

Adding support for a Bluetooth LE service
*****************************************

To add support for a Bluetooth LE service implemented in the |NCS|, complete the following steps:

1. Check the documentation of the :ref:`Bluetooth service <lib_bluetooth_services>` for its characteristics and functions.

> #. Write the implementation of the `Bluetooth LE Arbiter's Request struct`_, including the ``Init`` method and the ``priority`` parameter.
> #. In the application source file, add a call to the `Bluetooth LE Arbiter's InsertRequest function`_, with the reference to the ``Request`` structure.
>    This adds the service to the Arbiter queue.
>    You can for example use the service's ``StartServer`` method.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#. Add the application code that instantiates and fills the `Bluetooth LE Arbiter's Request struct`_, including its ``priority` field.
#. Add the application code that call the `Bluetooth LE Arbiter's InsertRequest function`_, with the reference to the ``Request`` structure, when the service needs to be advertised.
This adds the service to the Arbiter queue.
```
There's no such thing as implementation of the structure. Also, do not refer to `StartServer` and `Init` as they are not part of any common interface - they can only be mentioned in the section below that uses a specific sample.

.. _ug_matter_device_adding_bt_services:

Adding Bluetooth LE services to Matter application
##################################################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

You can integrate a variety of Bluetooth® LE services to your Matter-enabled application.
The Bluetooth LE services can run next to the Matter stack and the Bluetooth LE Arbiter class can advertise them in a specific prioritization order.

> For now, this solution is available for Matter over Thread.

Author: @LuDuda , @ArekBalysNordic , care to comment?

> For now, this solution is available for Matter over Thread.

Reviewer: I tested it last month and it was very unstable. When had both WiFi and BLE connections established Sheliak was losing WiFi connection many times. I would not add WiFi support in this place as far as WiFi Coex is not fully ready. But @LuDuda what is your opinion about that?

> For now, this solution is available for Matter over Thread.

Reviewer 3: Discussed F2F. Let's remove this line.
